	During the course of my undergraduate computer science studies at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute I invested the large part of my free electives in mathematics courses. As my knowledge grew, and I progressed to higher level courses, both in computer science and mathematics, I found myself becoming more and more interested in the marriage of the two fields. At the end of the spring 2008 semester, after completing courses in numerical computing and numerical methods for differential equations, I sought summer employment in a field related to these studies. In my search, I found an opportunity to do undergraduate research in robotics with Professor Jeffrey Trinkle.

	Without any prior knowledge of the field aside from a short write up vaguely explaining the relationship between it and numerical analysis I applied and subsequently spent that summer as an undergraduate research assistant at Rensselaer with Professor Trinkle and his doctoral student, Steve Berard. I worked with them in the Rensselaer Robotics lab on their physical simulator software; daVinci Code. Over the course of the summer I was exposed to the field of robotics, how it relates to my theoretical background, and what life as a research scientist might be like. Their work in robotics encompassed and expanded on everything that I had learned during the previous semester, while providing the perspective of a meaningful application. During the summer I gained an understanding of what the study of robotics entails and a deeper interest in work as a research scientist.
	
	The most important thing I got out of my summer with Professor Trinkle was exposure to a new discipline. By spending time working alongside graduate students, professors and postdoctoral fellows in the Rensselaer Robotics lab, I came to appreciate the great differences between production and research environments. In previous internships in the production world I experienced much more emphasis on the application of known concepts and methods to solve problems with narrow scopes. In contrast, the experience from the research standpoint was a very different challenge. I generally observed that the problems dealt with had much broader scopes with no obvious answers. These problems required not just the ability to reapply known concepts and methods, but also required the ability to develop new ones. In tackling these kinds of problems, one must constantly push himself to further his own knowledge.
	
	I found this requirement for constant growth the most intriguing part of my research experience.  In my academic life, I find the most joy and the biggest sense of reward not in finding the answer, but in truly understanding a problem and its solutions. I find myself more excited about understanding why something works, rather than simply making something work. My work with Professor Trinkle provided me with the perspective to realize the environment the research world provides, allows for greater intellectual growth and encourages curiosity in ways the production world simply cannot. I feel that research is the natural extension of the work I enjoyed as an undergraduate student and believe the path to success in this area is to pursue graduate work in the mathematics field. 
       
    My greatest weakness in preparation for the Masters in Mathematics Program at the University of Vermont stems from the fact that my undergraduate degree at Rensselaer was in Computer Science, rather than Mathematics.  As a result my mathematics background is a little less robust than if I had pursued a mathematics degree.  As my interest in mathematics grew I took as many math electives as I could; my transcripts will highlight my level of success in that area.  While at Rensselaer I have learned that dedication, hard work and strong study habits go a long way to overcoming any academic challenge.  I believe that the challenge of succeeding in the University of Vermont's mathematics program with an undergraduate background in Computer Science is one I am intrested in taking on and am ready and able to overcome.

     My career goal, and the reason for my application, is to ultimately complete a doctoral program which would allow me to teach at the college level in the field of mathematics. I am interested in a professional career that combines challenging research and teaching. My undergraduate studies at Rensselaer have provided a foundation and prepared me to learn independently and to dedicate the effort needed to succeed at the graduate level. I believe the University of Vermont will provide me an excellent interdisciplinary graduate program which will build upon my existing academic foundation and allow me to attain my career goals.
